The Impossible Warehouse Native question (#14815)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/blog/posthog-vs-amplitude.mdx

- **Amplitude** – Purpose-built for growth analytics with a UI designed for non-technical users. Tighter integrations with ad platforms and marketing tools, plus dedicated web experimentation features.

**For data teams**

> - **Amplitude** – Warehouse-native architecture lets you query directly on Snowflake, BigQuery, or Databricks without moving data. PostHog supports [warehouse-native workflows with its integrated warehouse](/warehouse-native) and can sync to and from external warehouses while running queries on PostHog compute, not on your external warehouse (Snowflake, Databricks, etc).

Author: ```suggestion
- **Amplitude** – Warehouse-native architecture lets you query directly on Snowflake, BigQuery, or Databricks without moving data. PostHog offers an integrated data warehouse that enables warehouse-native workflows across other PostHog tools, such as analytics, feature flags, and surveys. Alternatively, you can ingest data into PostHog from an external warehouse, such as Snowflake, and run queries on PostHog compute.
```

> - **Amplitude** – Warehouse-native architecture lets you query directly on Snowflake, BigQuery, or Databricks without moving data. PostHog offers an integrated data warehouse that enables warehouse-native workflows across other PostHog tools, such as analytics, feature flags, and surveys. Alternatively, you can ingest data into PostHog from an external warehouse, such as Snowflake, and run queries on PostHog compute.

Reviewer: Amplitude [warehouse metrics](https://amplitude.com/docs/data/warehouse-metrics) are prob worth a mention - this is basically the equivalent of us importing data in to use in experiments, product analytics, etc. Mentioning this as a competing product offering probably solidifies what we are doing as valid, since amplitude is mentioned as the gold standard here.

Also worth mentioning here and in other places - Amplitude forces you to be either warehouse native or not - you can't have a project that does both, unless you use this warehouse metrics thing. So that's a selling point for the "hybrid" approach.

Yes, for most use cases. **PostHog** offers all the core analytics features Amplitude provides – funnels, retention, cohorts, user paths, feature flags, A/B testing, session replay, and surveys – plus additional capabilities like error tracking and LLM analytics. 

> The main exception is warehouse-native analytics: Amplitude can run queries directly on your data warehouse (Snowflake, BigQuery), while we mostly sync data into PostHog and run queries there. Find out more about ([how we do warehouse-native](/warehouse-native) in the docs).

Author: ```suggestion
The main exception is warehouse-native analytics: Amplitude can run queries directly on your data warehouse (Snowflake, BigQuery), while we mostly sync data into PostHog (either via [our CDP](/cdp) or by ingesting into our integrated data warehouse) and run queries on our compute. Find out more about ([how we do warehouse-native](/warehouse-native) in the docs).
```

<details>
<summary>Which should I choose for warehouse-native analytics?</summary>

> **Amplitude** if you need queries to run directly on your Snowflake/BigQuery. **PostHog** is a better solution if you're using our integrated data warehouse or want to avoid [warehouse-native workflows](/warehouse-native).

Reviewer: I don't understand why avoiding warehouse native workflows would be a benefit when answering the question `Which should I choose for warehouse-native analytics?`
